Document 1
Title: Explaining Risks: Axiomatic Risk Attributions for Financial Models
Authors: Dangxing Chen
Abstract: In recent years, machine learning models have achieved great success at the
expense of highly complex black-box structures. By using axiomatic attribution
methods, we can fairly allocate the contributions of each feature, thus
allowing us to interpret the model predictions. In high-risk sectors such as
finance, risk is just as important as mean predictions. Throughout this work,
we address the following risk attribution problem: how to fairly allocate the
risk given a model with data? We demonstrate with analysis and empirical
examples that risk can be well allocated by extending the Shapley value
framework.

Document 2
Title: Choices or constraints: decoding financial empowerment among women entrepreneurs in France
Authors: Jonathan Labbé, Typhaine Lebègue, Abdel Malik Ola
Abstract: This research examines the empowerment of women entrepreneurs in the context
of entrepreneurial financing in France. It explores the factors that allow some
women entrepreneurs to access certain categories of external finance more
easily. The theoretical framework used is based on the concept of empowerment,
explored through its personal and relational dimensions. The study relies on a
quantitative approach, using data from a representative of women entrepreneurs.
The results show that the status of a founder affects access to external
finance in different ways: it increases the chances of successful fundraising,
but reduces the chances of obtaining bank finance. This finding highlights the
importance of empowerment dynamics, which vary according to the type of
financing. In addition, characteristics such as the presence of a spouse in the
business, high income, membership of a professional network and the diversity
of this network complete the analysis of inequalities in access. This study,
the first of its kind in France, suggests ways of enriching our understanding
of the diversity of situations experienced by female founders, thus helping to
deconstruct the homogeneous image of women's entrepreneurship.

Document 3
Title: Text mining arXiv: a look through quantitative finance papers
Authors: Michele Leonardo Bianchi
Abstract: This paper explores articles hosted on the arXiv preprint server with the aim
to uncover valuable insights hidden in this vast collection of research.
Employing text mining techniques and through the application of natural
language processing methods, we examine the contents of quantitative finance
papers posted in arXiv from 1997 to 2022. We extract and analyze crucial
information from the entire documents, including the references, to understand
the topics trends over time and to find out the most cited researchers and
journals on this domain. Additionally, we compare numerous algorithms to
perform topic modeling, including state-of-the-art approaches.

Document 4
Title: The Evolution of Reinforcement Learning in Quantitative Finance: A Survey
Authors: Nikolaos Pippas, Elliot A. Ludvig, Cagatay Turkay
Abstract: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has experienced significant advancement over the
past decade, prompting a growing interest in applications within finance. This
survey critically evaluates 167 publications, exploring diverse RL applications
and frameworks in finance. Financial markets, marked by their complexity,
multi-agent nature, information asymmetry, and inherent randomness, serve as an
intriguing test-bed for RL. Traditional finance offers certain solutions, and
RL advances these with a more dynamic approach, incorporating machine learning
methods, including transfer learning, meta-learning, and multi-agent solutions.
This survey dissects key RL components through the lens of Quantitative
Finance. We uncover emerging themes, propose areas for future research, and
critique the strengths and weaknesses of existing methods.

Document 5
Title: Qlib: An AI-oriented Quantitative Investment Platform
Authors: Xiao Yang, Weiqing Liu, Dong Zhou, Jiang Bian, Tie-Yan Liu
Abstract: Quantitative investment aims to maximize the return and minimize the risk in
a sequential trading period over a set of financial instruments. Recently,
inspired by rapid development and great potential of AI technologies in
generating remarkable innovation in quantitative investment, there has been
increasing adoption of AI-driven workflow for quantitative research and
practical investment. In the meantime of enriching the quantitative investment
methodology, AI technologies have raised new challenges to the quantitative
investment system. Particularly, the new learning paradigms for quantitative
investment call for an infrastructure upgrade to accommodate the renovated
workflow; moreover, the data-driven nature of AI technologies indeed indicates
a requirement of the infrastructure with more powerful performance;
additionally, there exist some unique challenges for applying AI technologies
to solve different tasks in the financial scenarios. To address these
challenges and bridge the gap between AI technologies and quantitative
investment, we design and develop Qlib that aims to realize the potential,
empower the research, and create the value of AI technologies in quantitative
investment.

Document 6
Title: Quantum Computing for Financial Mathematics
Authors: Antoine Jacquier, Oleksiy Kondratyev, Gordon Lee, Mugad Oumgari
Abstract: Quantum computing has recently appeared in the headlines of many scientific
and popular publications. In the context of quantitative finance, we provide
here an overview of its potential.

Document 7
Title: FinRL-Podracer: High Performance and Scalable Deep Reinforcement Learning for Quantitative Finance
Authors: Zechu Li, Xiao-Yang Liu, Jiahao Zheng, Zhaoran Wang, Anwar Walid, Jian Guo
Abstract: Machine learning techniques are playing more and more important roles in
finance market investment. However, finance quantitative modeling with
conventional supervised learning approaches has a number of limitations. The
development of deep reinforcement learning techniques is partially addressing
these issues. Unfortunately, the steep learning curve and the difficulty in
quick modeling and agile development are impeding finance researchers from
using deep reinforcement learning in quantitative trading. In this paper, we
propose an RLOps in finance paradigm and present a FinRL-Podracer framework to
accelerate the development pipeline of deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-driven
trading strategy and to improve both trading performance and training
efficiency. FinRL-Podracer is a cloud solution that features high performance
and high scalability and promises continuous training, continuous integration,
and continuous delivery of DRL-driven trading strategies, facilitating a rapid
transformation from algorithmic innovations into a profitable trading strategy.
First, we propose a generational evolution mechanism with an ensemble strategy
to improve the trading performance of a DRL agent, and schedule the training of
a DRL algorithm onto a GPU cloud via multi-level mapping. Then, we carry out
the training of DRL components with high-performance optimizations on GPUs.
Finally, we evaluate the FinRL-Podracer framework for a stock trend prediction
task on an NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD cloud. FinRL-Podracer outperforms three popular
DRL libraries Ray RLlib, Stable Baseline 3 and FinRL, i.e., 12% \sim 35%
improvements in annual return, 0.1 \sim 0.6 improvements in Sharpe ratio and 3
times \sim 7 times speed-up in training time. We show the high scalability by
training a trading agent in 10 minutes with $80$ A100 GPUs, on NASDAQ-100
constituent stocks with minute-level data over 10 years.

Document 8
Title: The Quantitative Finance Aspects of Automated Market Markers in DeFi
Authors: Stefan Loesch
Abstract: Automated Market Makers (AMMs) are a class of smart contracts on Ethereum and
other blockchains that "make markets" autonomously. In other words, AMMs stand
ready to trade with other market participants that interact with them, at the
conditions determined by the AMM. In this this paper, which relies on the
existing and growing corpus of literature available, we review and present the
key mathematical and quantitative finance aspects that underpin their
operations, including the interesting relationship between AMMs and derivatives
pricing and hedging.

Document 9
Title: A Quantum algorithm for linear PDEs arising in Finance
Authors: Filipe Fontanela, Antoine Jacquier, Mugad Oumgari
Abstract: We propose a hybrid quantum-classical algorithm, originated from quantum
chemistry, to price European and Asian options in the Black-Scholes model. Our
approach is based on the equivalence between the pricing partial differential
equation and the Schrodinger equation in imaginary time. We devise a strategy
to build a shallow quantum circuit approximation to this equation, only
requiring few qubits. This constitutes a promising candidate for the
application of Quantum Computing techniques (with large number of qubits
affected by noise) in Quantitative Finance.

Document 10
Title: The theory of quantitative trading
Authors: Andrea Berdondini
Abstract: This book consists of a selection of articles divided into three main themes:
Statistics, Quantitative Trading, Psychology. These three arguments are
indispensable for the development of a quantitative trading system. The order
of the articles was chosen so as to constitute a single logical reasoning that
develops progressively.

Document 11
Title: Optimal hedging with variational preferences under convex risk measures
Authors: Marcelo Righi
Abstract: We expose a theoretical hedging optimization framework with variational
preferences under convex risk measures. We explore a general dual
representation for the composition between risk measures and utilities. We
study the properties of the optimization problem as a convex and monotone map
per se. We also derive results for optimality and indifference pricing
conditions. We also explore particular examples inside our setup.

Document 12
Title: Quantum Game Theory in Finance
Authors: Edward W. Piotrowski, J. Sladkowski
Abstract: This is a short review of the background and recent development in quantum
game theory and its possible application in economics and finance. The
intersection of science and society is also discussed. The review is addressed
to non--specialists.

